# What we will learn 

- ***Charts***


The source of this summary:

- [This Artical](https://www.webdesignerdepot.com/2013/11/easily-create-stunning-animated-charts-with-chart-js/)

- [Chart JS](https://www.chartjs.org/docs/latest/)

- [Basic usage of canvas](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Canvas_API/Tutorial/Basic_usage)

- [Drawing shapes with canvas](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Canvas_API/Tutorial/Drawing_shapes)

- [Applying colors](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Canvas_API/Tutorial/Applying_styles_and_colors)


-  [Drawing text](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Canvas_API/Tutorial/Drawing_text)

______________________________________

> Charts are far better for displaying data visually than tables and have the added benefit that no one is ever going to press-gang them into use as a layout tool. They’re easier to look at and convey data quickly, but they’re not always easy to create.

**The [canvas] element has only two attributes, width and height.
you can also give it ID [/canvas]**

>  The [canvas] element has a method called getContext(), used to obtain the rendering context and its drawing functions. getContext() takes one parameter, the type of context. such as 2D, 3D

> The script includes a function called draw(), which is executed once the page finishes loading; this is done by listening for the load event on the document.

> The fillRect() function draws a large black square 100 pixels on each side. The clearRect() function then erases a 60x60 pixel square from the center, and then strokeRect() is called to create a rectangular outline 50x50 pixels within the cleared square.
In upcoming pages we'll see two alternative methods for clearRect(), and we'll also see how to change the color and stroke style of the rendered shapes.

> fillStyle = color Sets the style used when filling shapes strokeStyle = color Sets the style for shapes' outlines.

> color is a string representing a CSS [color], a gradient object, or a pattern object. We'll look at gradient and pattern objects later. By default, the stroke and fill color are set to black (CSS color value #000000).

**How to Draw path useing these function** 

1. beginPath () Creates a new path. Once created, future drawing commands are directed into the path and used to build the path up.

2. Path methods Methods to set different paths for objects.
      - moveTo(x, y) Moves the pen to the coordinates specified by x and y.

      - lineTo(x, y) Draws a line from the current drawing position to the position specified by x and y.

      - To draw arcs or circles, we use the arc() or arcTo() methods.
      
      

3. closePath () Adds a straight line to the path, going to the start of the current sub-path.

4. stroke () Draws the shape by stroking its outline.

5. fill () Draws a solid shape by filling the path's content area.



**Drawing text**

*The canvas rendering context provides two methods to render text:*

1. fillText(text, x, y [, maxWidth]) 

**Fills a given text at the given (x,y) position. Optionally with a maximum width to draw.**

2. strokeText(text, x, y [, maxWidth])

**Strokes a given text at the given (x,y) position. Optionally with a maximum width to draw.**


**styling Text**
1. font = value

The current text style being used when drawing text. This string uses the same syntax as the CSS font property. The default font is 10px sans-serif.

2. textAlign = value

Text alignment setting. Possible values: start, end, left, right or center. The default value is start.

3. textBaseline = value

Baseline alignment setting. Possible values: top, hanging, middle, alphabetic, ideographic, bottom. The default value is alphabetic.

4. direction = value

Directionality. Possible values: ltr, rtl, inherit. The default value is inherit.

