# What we will learn

- The JavaScript Call Stack

- JavaScript error messages && debugging

The source of this summary [The first link](https://www.freecodecamp.org/news/understanding-the-javascript-call-stack-861e41ae61d4/)

The source of this summary [The second link](https://codeburst.io/javascript-error-messages-debugging-d23f84f0ae7c)

______________________________________

## The JavaScript Call Stack

**What is a ‘call’?**

a call stack is a data structure that uses the Last In, First Out (LIFO) principle to temporarily store and manage function invocation (call).

**How many ‘calls’ can happen at once?**

It is single-threaded. Meaning it can only do one thing at a time.

**What does LIFO mean?**

 Last In, First Out, it means that the last function that gets pushed into the stack is the first to be pop out, when the function returns.

**Draw an example of a call stack and the functions that would need to be invoked to generate that call stack.**

function firstFunction(){

  console.log("Hello from firstFunction");
}

function secondFunction(){

  firstFunction();

  console.log("The end from secondFunction");
}

secondFunction();

**What causes a Stack Overflow?**

A stack overflow occurs when there is a recursive function (a function that calls itself) without an exit point. The browser (hosting environment) has a maximum stack call that it can accomodate before throwing a stack error.

______________________________________

## JavaScript error messages && debugging

**What is a ‘refrence error’?**

when you try to use a variable that is not yet declared you get this type os errors.

**What is a ‘syntax error’?**

this occurs when you have something that cannot be parsed in terms of syntax

**What is a ‘range error’?**

Try to manipulate an object with some kind of length and give it an invalid length.

**What is a ‘tyep error’?**

this types of errors show up when the types (number, string and so on) you are trying to use or access are incompatible.

**What is a breakpoint?**

breakpoint is an intentional stopping or pausing place in a program, put in place for debugging purposes.

**What does the word ‘debugger’ do in your code?**

are used to identify coding errors at various development stages. They are used to reproduce the conditions in which error has occurred, then examine the program state at that time and locate the cause. Programmers can trace the program execution step-by-step by evaluating the value of variables and stop the execution wherever required to get the value of variables or reset the program variables.
