# summarization for the reading topics

1. What is a component?

   >A component is a modular, portable, replaceable, and reusable set of well-defined functionality that encapsulates its implementation and exporting it as a higher-level interface.

2. What does componentDidMount do?

   help you load anything using a network request or initialize the DOM, also a good place to set up any subscriptions . we can use it to connect to the YouTube API and get videos when the components is rendered.

3. **What is node.js?**

   Node.js is a program we can use to execute JavaScript on our computers. In other words, it’s a JavaScript runtime.

4. **What does the word ‘require’ do?**

   It allows you to include modules in your app. You can add built-in core Node.js modules, community-based modules (node_modules), and local modules too.it reads a JavaScript file, executes the file, and then proceeds to return the exports object.

5. **What does the word ‘debugger’ do in your code?**

   are used to identify coding errors at various development stages. They are used to reproduce the conditions in which error has occurred, then examine the program state at that time and locate the cause. Programmers can trace the program execution step-by-step by evaluating the value of variables and stop the execution wherever required to get the value of variables or reset the program variables.

6. **What is a ‘schema’?**

   is its structure described in a formal language supported by the database management system (DBMS). The term "schema" refers to the organization of data as a blueprint of how the database is constructed (divided into database tables in the case of relational databases).

7. **What is a NoSQL database?**

   "not only SQL" are non tabular, and store data differently than relational tables. NoSQL databases come in a variety of types based on their data model. The main types are document, key-value, wide-column, and graph. They provide flexible schemas and scale easily with large amounts of data and high user loads.
